(church bells ringing)
- [Woman] Here in our
little neck of the woods,
you can just look
around and see that
we show love to each other
in our area, with food.
That's what we do.
We get together, churches,
baby showers, bridal
showers, birthdays,
we're always eating.
When you come to
our homes we say,
"Come on in, let me fix
you something to eat."
It's how we were raised.
We don't get together
unless there's food.
And usually, it's not
really good choices.
I'm Laura Grueser,
and I'm the Community
Health Worker,
the lead at the Meigs
County Health Department.
I was diagnosed as
being pre diabetic,
in 2012.
I didn't understand really
what the big deal was.
It wasn't until I started
doing all the research,
and I thought why
shouldn't I use
this knowledge that I've got.
I can't teach somebody else,
to live a healthier life,
and come home and eat
a bag of potato chips.
That's not right,
I can't do that.
One of the big things
in Meigs County is
the pride of the people here
and the independence.
It's very very hard
for proud people,
to say I can't do
this, I need some help,
and so I tell them please
just give me three months.
Give me three months
out of your life
and listen to what I'm saying
and get with this program.
If it doesn't work, and
you don't see any changes
in three months,
I'll leave you alone,
and you can go on.
No one has ever done that.
Every time I do an
intake, I always ask them,
"What do you think
caused your diabetes?"
and it doesn't matter
what their weight is,
or what their eating program is,
it is always,
because my dad had
it, or my mom had it,
or my aunt had it, my
sister or my brother.
So everyone feels as though,
I might as well just give it up
because dad had it
and he died from it.
So when they're
given that diagnoses,
it's a very sad
thing to witness.
In pop, so now
knowledge is power,
so now you can tell all
your family this too.
So in one 20 ounce
bottle of Mountain Dew
there are more than
18 teaspoons of sugar.
That's what it looks like.
When your drinking a
bottle of Mountain Dew,
your drinking that much sugar.
Isn't that crazy?
- Yeah!
- [Laura] And all pop
is about the same.
Carbs in one cup of pineapple?
- [Siri] 22 grams of
total carbohydrates
in one cup chunks.
- [Laura] Okay.
Carbs in banana's?
One of the things that we do
in our diabetes education,
is we show patients how
to read food labels.
So one serving
size is half a cup
and there are four grams of
carbohydrates in half a cup.
So that's a good choice.
- Yeah.
- [Laura] That gives them
power over what their eating,
when they can make the choice,
do I put it in the cart
or do I put it
back on the shelf.
Here's one of the best
things you can eat.
The plums.
- Okay that's
- [Laura] Because one
plum only has eight grams
of carbohydrates
in the whole thing.
- [Carolyn] I found out
how much I didn't know,
about diabetes.
- [Carolyn] I didn't understand
about counting the carbs.
Watch your sweets,
watch the sugar intake.
Your fried foods, that
all affects your diet.
- [Laura] Of those, three types.
Which ones the best?
- [John] This one.
- [Laura] There you go.
- [Carolyn] We're
learning I should say
to eat differently.
- [Laura] They soak all
of these fruits in sugar.
Oh my goodness, I
can't even believe
that you picked that
up, that is evil.
- [John] We don't even
want to talk about them.
(Laura laughing)
- [Laura] Where to now?
One of my biggest pet
peeves is with our labeling,
in the United States.
If it says sugar free,
my patients pull
that off the shelf,
put it in their cart
and think I can have eight
or 12 of these cookies
because their sugar free.
Their not sugar free,
it's, it's not true.
A serving size is four cookies,
and in four, those four cookies
their are 21 grams
of carbohydrates,
and it does have
the sugar alcohols,
it has sorbitol, there's
sugar free in huge letters.
The game is rigged.
Our labeling is
done in such a way,
that it's almost a
lose lose situation,
because people think that
they're doing so well,
but they're really not.
(Sad music)